---
layout: post
title:  "Configuration"
date:   2016-12-28 
categories: jekyll update
comments: true
featured: false
---

Jekyll allows you to concoct your sites in any way you can dream up, and it’s thanks to the powerful and flexible configuration options that this is possible. <!--more--> These options can either be specified in a _config.yml file placed in your site’s root directory, or can be specified as flags for the jekyll executable in the terminal.

<h2>Configuration SettingsPermalink</h2>

<h4>Global Configuration</h4>

The table below lists the available settings for Jekyll, and the various <code>options</code> (specified in the configuration file) and <code>flags</code> (specified on the command-line) that control them.

<table>
	<tr>
		<th>Setting</th>
		<th>Options and Flags</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Site Source</h5>
			Change the directory where Jekyll will read files
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>source: DIR</code>
			<code>-s, --source DIR</code>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Site Destination</h5>
			Change the directory where Jekyll will write files
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>destination: DIR</code>
			<code>-d, --destination DIR</code>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Safe</h5>
			Disable <a href="https://jekyllrb.com/docs/plugins/">custom plugins, and ignore symbolic links</a>.
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>safe: BOOL</code>
			<code>--safe</code>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Exclude</h5>
			Exclude directories and/or files from the conversion. These exclusions are relative to the site's source directory and cannot be outside the source directory.
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>exclude: [DIR, FILE, ...]</code>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Include</h5>
			Force inclusion of directories and/or files in the conversion.  <code>.htaccess</code> is a good example since dotfiles are excluded by default.
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>include: [DIR, FILE, ...]</code>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Keep files</h5>
			When clobbering the site destination, keep the selected files. Useful for files that are not generated by jekyll; e.g. files or assets that are generated by your build tool. The paths are relative to the <code>destination</code>.
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>keep_files: [DIR, FILE, ...]</code>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Time Zone</h5>
			Set the time zone for site generation. This sets the <code>TZ</code> environment variable, which Ruby uses to handle time and date creation and manipulation. Any entry from the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tz_database">IANA Time Zone Database</a> is valid, e.g. <code>America/New_York</code>. A list of all available values can be found <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones">here</a>. The default is the local time zone, as set by your operating system.
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>timezone: TIMEZONE</code>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Encoding</h5>
			Set the encoding of files by name (only available for Ruby 1.9 or later). The default value is <code>utf-8</code> starting in 2.0.0, and <code>nil</code> before 2.0.0, which will yield the Ruby default of <code>ASCII-8BIT</code>. Available encodings can be shown by the command <code>ruby -e 'puts Encoding::list.join("\n")'</code>
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>encoding: ENCODING</code>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<h5>Default</h5>
			Set defaults for <a href="https://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/">YAML Front Matter</a> variables.
		</td>
		<td>
			<code>see <a href="#front-matter-defaults">below</a></code>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

